Complete Tracks by Length (nee. track accuracy over time) (#331)
Janelia-Trackathon-2023/traccuracy: docs/source/metrics/lineage-accuracy.md

(lineage-accuracy-metrics)=
# Tracklet and Lineage Accuracy Metrics

> Track accuracy over N frames measures what fraction of ground truth tracklet or lineage segments that span N frames are correctly reconstructed.

Reviewer: Here we talk about segments that span N frames, and down below we mention a "sliding window". 

Afaict, our `max_window` says "give me the fraction of completely correct lineages/tracklets in frames `1..max_window`", right? If that's the case, I don't think we should refer to it as a sliding window, because then I would expect it to "slide" over the total number of frames in the dataset and always give me the fraction correct over the last `window_size` frames.

If `max_window` determines the frame at which we stop checking, then we should say something like "measures what fraction of ground truth tracklet or lineage segments over the first N frames (up to the first N frames?) are correctly reconstructed"? Then provide the tip which we currently have later down about when `N = num_frames` you get the whole dataset.

If I've misinterpreted the metric please ignore me...

Author: It does in fact slide, so not only from 1...max_window, but also 2...max_window + 1, 3...max_window + 2, etc.

> Track accuracy over N frames measures what fraction of ground truth tracklet or lineage segments that span N frames are correctly reconstructed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lineage accuracy over N frames measures what fraction of ground truth tracklet or lineage segments that span N frames are correctly reconstructed.
```
I think this should be lineage not track? We should make sure the nomenclature is consistent for this metric. I think right now there is occasionally switches between track and lineage.

For lineage segments, all branches are included - a segment is only correct if all branches are correct.
Skip edges that span multiple frames count toward their actual frame difference. For example, a skip edge from t=0 to t=3 contributes a segment of size 3, not size 1.

A segment is counted as correct if there are no errors anywhere in it. In our current implementation, this includes checking:
- The starting node is a true positive
- All edges are true positives (edge TP implies endpoint nodes are TP)

Important counting rules:
- Isolated nodes (nodes with no outgoing edges) are NOT counted as segments
- Ground truth tracks shorter than window size N do contribute 1 to the total for window N

> In the extreme case where N equals the track length, this is the same as the CTC-BIO [Complete Tracks](complete-tracks).

Reviewer: I think track length is confusing -- is this suggestion accurate? Or `N equals the length of the longest lineage`?

```suggestion
In the extreme case where N equals the number of frames in the dataset, this is the same as the CTC-BIO [Complete Tracks](complete-tracks).
```

Skip edges that span multiple frames count toward their actual frame difference. For example, a skip edge from t=0 to t=3 contributes a segment of size 3, not size 1. Isolated ground truth nodes (nodes with no outgoing edges) are not counted as segments. Ground truth tracks shorter than window size N do contribute 1 to the total for window N.

## Usage

```python
from traccuracy.metrics import TrackAccuracyOverTime
from traccuracy.matchers import IOUMatcher

# Match ground truth and predicted tracking graphs
matcher = IOUMatcher(iou_threshold=0.5)
matched = matcher.compute_mapping(gt_graph, pred_graph)

# Compute lineage accuracy over windows spanning 1-50 frames
metric = TrackAccuracyOverTime(max_window=50, lineages=True, error_type="basic")
result = metric.compute(matched)

# Results contain three lists (index 0 = window 1, index 1 = window 2, etc.):
#   "correct" - number of correctly reconstructed segments at each window size
#   "total"   - total number of GT segments at each window size
#   "accuracy"- correct/total (or NaN if total is 0)
print(f"Window 1: {result.results['accuracy'][0]:.2%}")
print(f"Window 10: {result.results['accuracy'][9]:.2%}")

> print(f"Window 50: {result.results['accuracy'][49]:.2%}")

Reviewer 2: It would be nice to also include a code snippet to plot accuracy over time 🙏
